All right. Committee, we have our final submitter for the afternoon.
We have Nicholas Bernhardt from Informed365.
Hopefully, Nicholas, you've accepted the invitation to become a panelist.
There you go. Look at that. Efficient. Welcome. Hello. We have 10 minutes.
Hello, how are you?
Very well. We have 10 minutes with you this afternoon.
That 10 minutes includes time for questions from the committee.
You can take your submission as read, but it's always good to go through and
highlight the things that you want us to be well across.
Perfect.
Do you want me to start now?
Yes, please. Go for it. Sorry.
Perfect. No, kia ora. I'm Nicholas Bernhardt from Informed365,
and I appreciate the opportunity to speak to the committee today.
For context, we work with around 500 organizations
across all sectors in both Australia and New Zealand,
including more than 150 that work through industry
consortia on modern slavery compliance and supplier risk management.
So we see directly what works and what doesn't in practice,
and in this sort of session, I'd love to make three very clear
points. The first one is proportionality.
So I've read the submissions to this bill, and there's sort of a real
concern that emerges.
The idea that every business should do the same level of due diligence,
regardless of size or actual risk, that's not really how it
works in practice. These sort of small and medium-sized businesses
we work with tell us they're overwhelmed.
They're drowning in complex surveys and compliance demands from their
larger customers, even when their risk sometimes
is very low.
And here's the thing, that approach doesn't really help.
It's not good due diligence because real due diligence sort
of aligned with international standards is about
understanding risk and acting proportion to that risk.
So when large entities shift compliance burden down to
smaller suppliers just because they can, that's not
responsible action. It creates compliance theater, not really
protection. So that's point one. The second point
that I wanted to raise was around vulnerability.
As we all know, modern slavery is fundamentally about the
abuse of vulnerability. Exploited workers-- Look,
exploiters basically target workers who have no power.
In both our business environments, in both New Zealand and Australia,
there are power imbalances every single day.
A worker's personal circumstances, business practices, lack of
legal protection, all of that matters.
So what we're sort of encouraging businesses to do is flip that mindset.
Use vulnerability as a framework, which then means three things.
One is a pretty obvious one, take responsibility for your
own workers, of course, but also for your indirect workers.
And that's people throughout your supply chain that are at risk.
Second, listen to workers' voices, which is probably
the most valuable data you can find on modern slavery risk.
And work with partners to understand worker views safely
and meaningfully. The third one in that
vulnerability space is, and this one's crucial, is a preventative
mindset. Stop trying to react to problems after they
happen,
but rather set basic standards and address the systemic
factors that create that vulnerability in the first place.
Been doing this now for quite a few years in Australia, and
that seems to work really well.
The last point that I'd like to make is around impact, not
paperwork, which is quite a contentious one sometimes, even
across the Tasman,
but it is probably the most important point as well.
Reporting requirements are increasing. That's fine. That's perfectly fine.
But what our clients tell us is that paper shuffling does not equal
impact.
You can file reports all day and change nothing for vulnerable
workers. What actually works is measuring
effectiveness. Clear metrics that allow businesses
to, A,
identify where their approach isn't working and fix it,
direct resources to what actually matters, and communicate
honestly to stakeholders. And that sort of is a
real demonstration of compliance, not just box ticking, but
actual progress. And so what we're sort of very much in
favor of the bill
sort of promoting and rewarding is it should
incentivize businesses to measure what works, not just
measure how they're reporting. And that's, I think, the
shift we need to see bearing in mind or taking into account the
lessons we've learnt in the UK and in
Australia.
That's the three points that I wanted to make.
So proportionality, vulnerability, and then impact,
not paperwork. Hopefully, that was helpful.
Thank you very much, Nicholas. Can I just ask you, coming to us from somewhere
tropical, you look like you're a different weather or climate to us in New
Zealand.
Look, I'd love to say it's not tropical and beautiful here, but I'm
coming from Currumbin Valley in Queensland.
Ah.
It's very nice.
Right. That explains it
.
Most of the things behind me you see, I planted them with these
hands, basically.
Ah.
So
I feel very special about and very privileged to be in a spot
like this.
Thank you, Nicholas, and helpful to know that you've gone through the Australian
experience, which has added some insight to your
submission. It doesn't appear that we have any questions for you, but can I just
say it's not for a lack of interest.
You've given us a really constructive and insightful
submission in both written and verbally, too.
So thank you for being part of the process. It's very helpful to us.
Appreciate it. You take care and let me know if I can help in any other way.
Thank you so much.
Thanks very much. Bye.
Bye.